In our real world, data exists in many different formats.
It can be for ages, colors, temperature, audio, text, you name it.
An important question that comes,
how we can classify and categorize these data groups?
Therefore,
a discussion about different data groups in the real world is quite important,
and it has a direct influence on which techniques we are going
to use to manipulate and transform our data.
Let's now have a quick discussion about a basic,
yet important topic, and that is how the data looks like in the real world.
Generally speaking, we can categorize the data into four main categories,
numerical data, which represents numbers,
categorical data, which represents different classifications of data like colors,
which can be red or blue, unstructured data,
which does not follow a usual order, and time data.
One category of the numerical data is the discrete data,
which represents a count of integer or a whole number.
An example would be the count of people in a certain area.
You can only have 1, 2, 3, and so on number of people.
It doesn't make sense to have two persons and a half, right?
The second category.
of numerical data is the continuous data,
and this is numerical data that can assume a full range of values.
An example of that would be temperature. Temperature can be 25 C,
25.7, or 40.1 C. So decimal and floating point values
are acceptable beside integer values.
One type of categorical data is the nominal data, and this is where the
specific type of the data doesn't indicate any mathematical
significance. An example of that would be a country.
We cannot say country X is larger than country Y. Notice that I
am talking about the country category itself,
not the country area size since it would be logical to say
that America area is bigger than Mexico area.
Another type of categorical data is ordinal later,
and this is where different values do have a mathematical significance.
For example, a film can be rated from 1 to 5. A rating or 4 is
higher than a rating of 2. Unstructured data are data types that
don't really follow our previous structures,
such as text, audio, image, and video.
It is possible to argue that all these unstructured data
types have to be converted into a numerical and
categorical formats to deal with them.
But this is a different discussion that we will touch on later.
Finally, time data or time series data represent the usual time and date we deal with.